Today we will analyze the Spotify
business model and we will do
so to reinforce some of the concepts
learned in particular with respect
to the revenue flows we saw
in the previous class.
To do this we have been gathered
with Rodrigo who is one of the
leaders, one of the Spotify managers
in Spain and what we will do
is first we will do a couple of
cuts of the talk with Rodrigo
and then we will analyze
from the canvas, from the
perspective of the business
model what Rodrigo has told us.
Spotify reaches an agreement with the owners
of the content, in this case with the
recording companies, and pays them for
the consumption of that content.
Those are the costs that Spotify
has and then pays them for having
premium content, in our case
it doesn’t hear advertising and
a lot of premium-only features
or brands are those that
support or sponsor free
users at the expense
of listening to or seeing their
advertising.
Well, the main advantage
I understand is that you do not
depend on a single financing
route and then if you have a content
that is attractive to users you
can tie a lot of people who are
used to pay for digital content
for your content and those
who are not used to pay for
digital content you
can convince brands so
that they can pay say between
the lines or sponsor
the consumption of that
content.
I think that is the main advantage.
The main disadvantage that the
market can have is that you have
to enter a market that is mature
so that users can get to pay
at a given time, go through
that funnel that is to try the
product for free, see the
needs that are making me
get that product and be
willing to pay for it.
So that’s not all markets
are ready, not all users
or all kinds of content
is accessible so users
pay for it in all
markets.
In fact, there have been
many problems in Spain for
many years so that users are
used to paying for television
series film content.
Now not, but five or six years ago it
was totally unthinkable that people would
pay for it.
Now that we have heard of Rodrigo
what we will do is do the analysis
from the business model point
of view and we will use the
Remember that talked to us
that Spotify has two ways
of monetization.
On the one hand, free users are subsidized
by the brands that are advertised
on Spotify and on the other hand,
there is a percentage of users
who pay the premium fee,
the subscription every month.
Therefore, from the point of
view of business model analysis,
it combines two sources of revenue,
the premium model we saw in the
previous class and the advertising
model.
We will see it in the canvas.
Let’s start with the advertising model.
Spotify offers free music to
millions and millions of people
around the world and what it does
is monetize them through advertisers,
brands that are advertised
on Spotify.
We have the first source of income.
This is clearly a advertising
model like a free digital
newspaper could
be.
The model is the same, it is to
attract a lot of people by offering
free content and that critical
mass of users is monetized
by means of brand ads or the
usual model of classified.
It works so.
The canvas would be very similar
but also Spotify does incorporate
a second source of income
that is premium quotas.
Therefore, we can also say that
it is a premium business model
and we have it here drawn.
We also added green to heavy
users, users who pay for
their subscription every
month.
As Rodrigo said, Spotify’s
challenge is to convert as
many free users as possible
into premium users that usually
premium business models
do not usually have more
than a 10% of users who pay
the fee.
Let us now look at the advantages
and disadvantages of this
model.
I think it is very obvious that
this type of advertising models,
premium, etc., generally allow
you to grow very fast because
your basic service is free.
On the other hand, you have the
challenge of turning users
into premium because there
are many occasions when users get
used to the free service
or you are not able to demonstrate
enough value for them to
pay the fee.
This is a challenge that companies
that offer this type of
services have to overcome.
One disadvantage to consider
is that in these models your
financial needs are huge because
you have to reach much more
critical.
When you are not charging
anything for your users,
you need to capitalize well.
Think of Spotify.
Spotify is coming to a country.
The first thing it does is offer
you a free service until it wins
millions of users.
At first, it is even very difficult
to negotiate with brands when you
don’t have a lot of volume.
So, that’s why I say you
have to be very strongly capitalized.
And another analysis I want to do
is that I want you to be clear that
the premium model in general or the
free model in general is only sustained
when the marginal cost of providing
those free services of
having a more customer tends
to zero.
I give you an example.
A digital newspaper.
A digital newspaper can have millions
and millions of the cost in this
case is that it is zero.
Spotify can offer its basic service
to millions more people at very
very very very little extra cost.
That is the key.
The key is that the marginal cost
of having free users is very
low.
You will also monetize them in different
ways, but that has to be
the way.
That is a requirement that must be
given because if you are costly
to provide the service to free users
because obviously the business
model is not profitable.